# Temporary Blob Service (TBS)

This plugins implements a "temporary [blob](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_large_object) service".

With this service, you can store and retrieve various files of any type through a REST api. It's not
a permanent storage service because all objects have a lifetime and will be automatically cleaned.

Extra key/values can be associated with the data and will be retrieved when you get the file.

## Concepts

### namespace

A `namespace` is just a kind of bucket for yours blobs. It's a plain string (length <= 64 characters).
Allowed characters are alphanumeric ones `[0-9a-zA-Z]`, `.` (dot), `_` (underscore) and `-` (hyphen).

### blob

You can see `blob` as a binary file. It can be a text file, an image or anything else. The service
does not make any assumptions about the content of your blobs. They are never altered.

When you submit your blob to the service, you will get a blob unique id (`blob_uid`). You have to
know your `blob_uid` to retrieve it. There is no other way for the moment (no search service, no listing).

You can provide an indicative [media type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type) to your blob. It
will be returned as a `HTTP Content-Type header` during retrieval.

### lifetime

All blobs have a lifetime (in seconds). The lifetime can be specific to each blob, even if there is a
default and a maximum value in global configuration. There is no real limit to this lifetime but keep
in mind that this service was designed as a "temporary blob service" and not a "persistant storage solution".
So we optimized it for speed, not for safety.

### extra key/values (metadata)

You can add some extra key/values (limited to 64 key/values) for each blob you store.

Each key is limited to 64 characters. Allowed characters for keys are:

- alphanumeric ones `[0-9a-zA-Z]`
- and '-' (hyphen)

Each value is limited to 1024 characters. Allowed characters for keys are:

- alphanumeric ones `[0-9a-zA-Z]`
- `.` (dot)
- `_` (underscore)
- `-` (hyphen)
- `+` (plus)
- `/` (slash)

So if you want to pass others things in metadata values, encode them in base64 for example.

Note: the total size of the http request (including metadata but excluding blob itself) is limited to 8 kB.

## API

### POST `/tbs/{namespace}/blobs`

This service add a new blob in the blob store inside the given `namespace`.
The blob is the (raw) body of your POST request.

Note: The `namespace` is created automatically.

If the operation is successful, the service will respond with a `HTTP/201 Created` status code
and you will get your `blob_uid` in the JSON reply (or in `Location` header).

```
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Location: http://{...}/tbs/{namespace}/blobs/{blob_uid}
Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json

{
    "data": {
        "type": "blob",
        "id": "{blob_uid}",
        "attributes": {
            "lifetime": 3600,
            "content-type": "application/octet-stream"
        },
        "links": {
            "self": "http://{...}/tmp/blob_store/{namespace}/blobs/{blob_uid}
        }
    }
}
```

If the operation is not successful, the service will respond with a:

- `HTTP/413`: when your blob is too large (there is a max size in the global configuration)
- `HTTP/429`: when you hit the number or the size limit of the namespace
- `HTTP/400`: in other client error cases (bad `namespace` string for example, too big lifetime...)

You can also set:

- a specific lifetime for your blob by adding (for example) a `X-TmpBlobStore-Lifetime: 60` header
to your request
- a specific indicative `Content-Type` for your blob by adding (for example) a `X-TmpBlobStore-ContentType: image/png` header
- a specific indicative `Content-Disposition` for your blob by adding (for example) a `X-TmpBlobStore-ContentDisposition: attachment; filename="foobar.png"` header
- `<FIXME>`
- any extra key/value pairs (see concepts) with one or several http headers in your POST request: `X-TmpBlobStore-Extra-{Yourkey}: {your_value}` with:
    - `{Yourkey}`: your key with the first character in uppercase (see concepts for allowed characters and size)
    - `{your_value}`: your value (see concepts for allowed characters and size)
- `</FIXME>`

### GET `/tbs/{namespace}/blobs/{blob_uid}[?delete=1]`

Get the given blob (the body posted with the previous `POST` request) or HTTP/404.

If `delete=1`, the blob is deleted just after the read. So, with this parameter, this is a "single use request".

Notes:

- if you set a `X-TmpBlobStore-ContentType` header during `POST` operation, the value will be sent in the reply of this `GET` operation as standard `Content-Type` header (this is really important if (for example) you store a PNG image and you want this file to be automatically recognized as an image by a browser using this download link)
- if you set a `X-TmpBlobStore-ContentDisposition` header during `POST` operation, the value will be sent in the reply of this `GET` operation as standard `Content-Disposition` header (this can be really useful if you want to force the download filename for a browser (or for `wget` with `--content-disposition` flag or for `curl` with `-OJ` flags)
- `<FIXME>`
- if you set some extra key-values during `POST` operation, the key/values will be returned as `X-TmpBlobStore-Extra-{Yourkey}: {your_value}` headers with the blob during this `GET` operation
- `</FIXME>`


If the operation is not successful, the service will respond with a:

- `HTTP/404`: when the (namespace, blob uid) tuple does not exist
- `HTTP/400`: in other client error cases (bad `namespace` string for example)

### DELETE `/tbs/{namespace}/blobs/{blob_uid}`

Delete the given blob or HTTP/404.
(see note above)


### POST `/tbs/{namespace}/blobs/{blob_uid}/clone`

**FIXME: operation not implemented**

Do a clone of the given `blob_uid` (without an internal copy of the whole blob).

The request body is ignored but you can override headers:

- `X-TmpBlobStore-Lifetime`
- `X-TmpBlobStore-Extra-{Yourkey}: {your_value}`

See `POST` operation for details

_note_: The data is effectively deleted when the last clone is deleted.

### GET `/tbs/{namespace}/blobs`

**FIXME: operation not implemented**

Get a JSON with some statistics about the namespace

### GET `/tbs`

**FIXME: operation not implemented**

Get a JSON with some statistics about the while service.
